docs/part3-advanced/job-configuration.md, before:

# Job Configuration

HydraFlow job configuration allows you to define reusable experiment
definitions that can be executed with a single command. This page explains
how to create and use job configurations.

## Basic Job Configuration

HydraFlow reads job definitions from a `hydraflow.yaml` file in your
project directory. A basic job configuration looks like this:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - each: >-
          model=small,large
          learning_rate=0.1,0.01
```

### Configuration Structure

The configuration file uses the following structure:

- `jobs`: The top-level key containing all job definitions
  - `<job_name>`: Name of the job (e.g., "train")
    - `run`: The command to execute
    - `add`: Global configuration arguments appended to each command
    - `sets`: List of parameter sets for the job

Each job must have either a `run`, `call`, or `submit` key, and at least one
parameter set.

## Execution Commands

HydraFlow supports three types of execution commands:

### `run`

The `run` command executes the specified command directly:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - each: model=small,large
```

### `call`

The `call` command executes a Python function:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    call: my_module.train_function
    sets:
      - each: model=small,large
```

The specified function will be imported and called with the parameters.

### `submit`

The `submit` command is used for submitting jobs to a cluster scheduler:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    submit: sbatch --partition=gpu job.sh
    sets:
      - each: model=small,large
```

The parameters will be passed to the submit command.

## Parameter Sets

Each job contains one or more parameter sets under the `sets` key.
Each set can include the following types of parameters:

### `each`

The `each` parameter defines a grid of parameter combinations. Each combination
will be executed as a separate command:

```yaml
sets:
  - each: >-
      model=small,large
      learning_rate=0.1,0.01
```

This will generate four separate executions, one for each combination of
model and learning rate.

### `all`

The `all` parameter defines parameters that will be included in each
execution from the set:

```yaml
sets:
  - each: model=small,large
  - all: seed=42 debug=true
```

This will include `seed=42 debug=true` in every execution for the set.

### `add`

The `add` parameter adds additional arguments that are appended to the end
of each command. This is primarily used for Hydra configuration settings:

```yaml
sets:
  - each: model=small,large
  - add: >-
      hydra/launcher=joblib
      hydra.launcher.n_jobs=4
```

This will append Hydra configuration to each command from the set.
If a set has its own `add` parameter, it completely overrides the job-level `add` parameter
(they are not merged). The job-level `add` is entirely ignored for that set.

## Multiple Parameter Sets

A job can have multiple parameter sets, each executed independently:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      # First set: Train models with different architectures
      - each: >-
          model=small,large
          optimizer=adam

      # Second set: Train models with different learning rates
      - each: >-
          model=medium
          learning_rate=0.1,0.01,0.001
```

Each set is completely independent and does not build upon the others.
The sets are executed sequentially in the order they are defined.

## Combining Parameter Types

You can combine different parameter types within a single set:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    add: hydra/launcher=joblib hydra.launcher.n_jobs=2
    sets:
      # First set: uses job-level add
      - each: model=small
      - all: seed=42 debug=true

      # Second set: overrides job-level add with set-level add
      - each: model=large
      - all: seed=43
      - add: hydra/launcher=submitit hydra.launcher.submitit.cpus_per_task=4
```

This will execute:

```bash
# First set: with job-level add
python train.py model=small seed=42 debug=true hydra/launcher=joblib hydra.launcher.n_jobs=2

# Second set: only using set-level add (job-level add is completely ignored)
python train.py model=large seed=43 hydra/launcher=submitit hydra.launcher.submitit.cpus_per_task=4
```

## Job-level and Set-level `add`

You can specify `add` at both the job level and set level:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    add: hydra/launcher=joblib hydra.launcher.n_jobs=2
    sets:
      # Uses job-level add
      - each: model=small,medium

      # Completely overrides job-level add
      - each: model=large,xlarge
        add: hydra/launcher=submitit hydra.launcher.submitit.cpus_per_task=8
```

When a set has its own `add` parameter, it completely overrides the job-level
`add` parameter. The job-level `add` is entirely ignored, not merged or partially replaced.

This behavior is important to remember when organizing your parameter sets and ensuring
the correct configuration options are applied to each set.

## Extended Sweep Syntax

HydraFlow supports an extended syntax for defining parameter sweeps:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - each: >-
          model=small,large
          learning_rate=logspace(0.1,0.001,4)
          weight_decay=0,1e-4,1e-5
```

This uses HydraFlow's extended sweep syntax to generate a grid of
parameters. See [Extended Sweep Syntax](sweep-syntax.md) for details.

## Job Inheritance

You can define a base job and inherit from it:

```yaml
jobs:
  base_train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - all: batch_size=32 seed=42

  finetune:
    run: python train.py
    inherit: base_train
    sets:
      - each: model=small,large
      - all: learning_rate=0.0001
```

The `finetune` job inherits the `run` command and the parameter sets from
`base_train`, and adds its own parameter sets.

## Overriding Inherited Sets

When inheriting, you can override specific elements:

```yaml
jobs:
  base_train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - all: batch_size=32 seed=42

  finetune:
    # Override the command
    run: python finetune.py
    inherit: base_train
    sets:
      # Add new parameter sets
      - each: model=small,large
```

## Inheritance Chains

You can create chains of inheritance:

```yaml
jobs:
  base:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - all: batch_size=32

  train:
    inherit: base
    sets:
      - all: seed=42

  finetune:
    inherit: train
    sets:
      - each: model=small,large
```

## Using Variables

You can define variables at the top level and use them in jobs:

```yaml
variables:
  base_lr: 0.001
  models: small,large

jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - each: >-
          model=${models}
          learning_rate=${base_lr}
```

Variables are interpolated when the configuration is loaded.

## Conditional Sets

You can conditionally include sets based on environment variables:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - each: model=small,large

      # Only included if DEBUG=1 is set
      - if: ${env:DEBUG} == 1
        all: debug=true verbose=true
```

The condition is evaluated when the job is executed.

## Including External Configurations

You can include external configuration files:

```yaml
# Main hydraflow.yaml
include:
  - path: configs/base.yaml
  - path: configs/custom.yaml

jobs:
  # Local job definitions
  custom_job:
    run: python custom.py
```

The included files should have the same structure as the main file.

## Reusing Sets

You can define reusable parameter sets and reference them:

```yaml
param_sets:
  common:
    all: seed=42 batch_size=32

  models:
    each: model=small,large

jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - use: common
      - use: models
```

This allows you to define parameter sets once and reuse them across
multiple jobs.

## Complete Example

Here's a complete example that demonstrates many of the features:

```yaml
variables:
  base_lr: 0.001
  models: small,large,xlarge

param_sets:
  common:
    all: seed=42 batch_size=32 epochs=100

  optimization:
    each: >-
      optimizer=adam,sgd
      learning_rate=${base_lr},${base_lr}*0.1

jobs:
  # Base job definition
  base_train:
    run: python train.py
    add: hydra/launcher=joblib hydra.launcher.n_jobs=2
    sets:
      - use: common

  # Training job
  train:
    inherit: base_train
    sets:
      - each: model=${models}
      - use: optimization

  # Evaluation job
  evaluate:
    run: python evaluate.py
    sets:
      - use: common
      - each: model=${models}
      - all: eval_split=test

  # Fine-tuning job with higher parallelism
  finetune:
    inherit: train
    run: python finetune.py
    sets:
      # This set completely overrides the job-level add from base_train
      - each: model=large,xlarge
        add: hydra/launcher=submitit hydra.launcher.submitit.cpus_per_task=8
      - all: pretrained=true learning_rate=${base_lr}*0.01
```

## Best Practices

### Organize Related Parameters

Group related parameters together in the same set:

```yaml
sets:
  # Model architecture parameters
  - each: >-
      model=small,large
      num_layers=2,4,6

  # Optimization parameters
  - each: >-
      optimizer=adam,sgd
      learning_rate=0.1,0.01
```

### Use Descriptive Job Names

Choose descriptive names for your jobs:

```yaml
jobs:
  pretrain_transformer:
    # ...

  finetune_classification:
    # ...

  evaluate_test_set:
    # ...
```

### Validate with Dry Run

Always validate your job configuration with a dry run before executing:

```bash
$ hydraflow run train --dry-run
```

### Use Variables for Shared Values

Define variables for values used across multiple jobs:

```yaml
variables:
  base_epochs: 100
  base_batch_size: 32

jobs:
  train:
    # ...
    sets:
      - all: epochs=${base_epochs} batch_size=${base_batch_size}
```

### Document Your Configurations

Add comments to explain complex configurations:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    # Use parallel execution for faster processing
    add: hydra/launcher=joblib hydra.launcher.n_jobs=4
    sets:
      # These parameters control the model architecture
      - each: >-
          model=small,large  # Model size
          num_layers=2,4     # Number of transformer layers

      # These control the optimization process
      - each: >-
          optimizer=adam,sgd  # Optimization algorithm
```

### Version Control Your Job Configurations

Keep your `hydraflow.yaml` files in version control to ensure
reproducibility of your experiments.

Commit message:

Clarify merging behavior of job-level and set-level 'add' parameters in documentation, emphasizing precedence rules and providing clearer examples for user understanding.

docs/part3-advanced/job-configuration.md, after:

# Job Configuration

HydraFlow job configuration allows you to define reusable experiment
definitions that can be executed with a single command. This page explains
how to create and use job configurations.

## Basic Job Configuration

HydraFlow reads job definitions from a `hydraflow.yaml` file in your
project directory. A basic job configuration looks like this:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - each: >-
          model=small,large
          learning_rate=0.1,0.01
```

### Configuration Structure

The configuration file uses the following structure:

- `jobs`: The top-level key containing all job definitions
  - `<job_name>`: Name of the job (e.g., "train")
    - `run`: The command to execute
    - `add`: Global configuration arguments appended to each command
    - `sets`: List of parameter sets for the job

Each job must have either a `run`, `call`, or `submit` key, and at least one
parameter set.

## Execution Commands

HydraFlow supports three types of execution commands:

### `run`

The `run` command executes the specified command directly:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - each: model=small,large
```

### `call`

The `call` command executes a Python function:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    call: my_module.train_function
    sets:
      - each: model=small,large
```

The specified function will be imported and called with the parameters.

### `submit`

The `submit` command is used for submitting jobs to a cluster scheduler:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    submit: sbatch --partition=gpu job.sh
    sets:
      - each: model=small,large
```

The parameters will be passed to the submit command.

## Parameter Sets

Each job contains one or more parameter sets under the `sets` key.
Each set can include the following types of parameters:

### `each`

The `each` parameter defines a grid of parameter combinations. Each combination
will be executed as a separate command:

```yaml
sets:
  - each: >-
      model=small,large
      learning_rate=0.1,0.01
```

This will generate four separate executions, one for each combination of
model and learning rate.

### `all`

The `all` parameter defines parameters that will be included in each
execution from the set:

```yaml
sets:
  - each: model=small,large
  - all: seed=42 debug=true
```

This will include `seed=42 debug=true` in every execution for the set.

### `add`

The `add` parameter adds additional arguments that are appended to the end
of each command. This is primarily used for Hydra configuration settings:

```yaml
sets:
  - each: model=small,large
  - add: >-
      hydra/launcher=joblib
      hydra.launcher.n_jobs=4
```

This will append Hydra configuration to each command from the set.
If a set has its own `add` parameter, it completely overrides the job-level `add` parameter
(they are not merged). The job-level `add` is entirely ignored for that set.

## Multiple Parameter Sets

A job can have multiple parameter sets, each executed independently:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      # First set: Train models with different architectures
      - each: >-
          model=small,large
          optimizer=adam

      # Second set: Train models with different learning rates
      - each: >-
          model=medium
          learning_rate=0.1,0.01,0.001
```

Each set is completely independent and does not build upon the others.
The sets are executed sequentially in the order they are defined.

## Combining Parameter Types

You can combine different parameter types within a single set:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    add: hydra/launcher=joblib hydra.launcher.n_jobs=2
    sets:
      # First set: uses job-level add
      - each: model=small
      - all: seed=42 debug=true

      # Second set: merges with job-level add (set-level parameters take precedence)
      - each: model=large
      - all: seed=43
      - add: hydra/launcher=submitit hydra.launcher.submitit.cpus_per_task=4
```

This will execute:

```bash
# First set: with job-level add
python train.py model=small seed=42 debug=true hydra/launcher=joblib hydra.launcher.n_jobs=2

# Second set: merges job-level and set-level add (hydra/launcher is overridden by set-level)
python train.py model=large seed=43 hydra/launcher=submitit hydra.launcher.n_jobs=2 hydra.launcher.submitit.cpus_per_task=4
```

## Job-level and Set-level `add`

You can specify `add` at both the job level and set level:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    add: hydra/launcher=joblib hydra.launcher.n_jobs=2
    sets:
      # Uses job-level add
      - each: model=small,medium

      # Merges with job-level add (set-level takes precedence for the same keys)
      - each: model=large,xlarge
        add: hydra/launcher=submitit hydra.launcher.submitit.cpus_per_task=8
```

When a set has its own `add` parameter, it is merged with the job-level `add` parameter.
If the same parameter key exists in both the job-level and set-level `add`, the set-level value takes precedence.

For example, with the configuration above:
- The first set uses: `hydra/launcher=joblib hydra.launcher.n_jobs=2`
- The second set uses: `hydra/launcher=submitit hydra.launcher.n_jobs=2 hydra.launcher.submitit.cpus_per_task=8`

Notice how `hydra/launcher` is overridden by the set-level value, while `hydra.launcher.n_jobs` from the job-level is retained.

This behavior allows you to:
1. Define common parameters at the job level
2. Override or add specific parameters at the set level
3. Keep all non-conflicting parameters from both levels

This merging behavior makes it easy to maintain common configuration options while customizing specific aspects for different parameter sets.

## Extended Sweep Syntax

HydraFlow supports an extended syntax for defining parameter sweeps:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - each: >-
          model=small,large
          learning_rate=logspace(0.1,0.001,4)
          weight_decay=0,1e-4,1e-5
```

This uses HydraFlow's extended sweep syntax to generate a grid of
parameters. See [Extended Sweep Syntax](sweep-syntax.md) for details.

## Job Inheritance

You can define a base job and inherit from it:

```yaml
jobs:
  base_train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - all: batch_size=32 seed=42

  finetune:
    run: python train.py
    inherit: base_train
    sets:
      - each: model=small,large
      - all: learning_rate=0.0001
```

The `finetune` job inherits the `run` command and the parameter sets from
`base_train`, and adds its own parameter sets.

## Overriding Inherited Sets

When inheriting, you can override specific elements:

```yaml
jobs:
  base_train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - all: batch_size=32 seed=42

  finetune:
    # Override the command
    run: python finetune.py
    inherit: base_train
    sets:
      # Add new parameter sets
      - each: model=small,large
```

## Inheritance Chains

You can create chains of inheritance:

```yaml
jobs:
  base:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - all: batch_size=32

  train:
    inherit: base
    sets:
      - all: seed=42

  finetune:
    inherit: train
    sets:
      - each: model=small,large
```

## Using Variables

You can define variables at the top level and use them in jobs:

```yaml
variables:
  base_lr: 0.001
  models: small,large

jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - each: >-
          model=${models}
          learning_rate=${base_lr}
```

Variables are interpolated when the configuration is loaded.

## Conditional Sets

You can conditionally include sets based on environment variables:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - each: model=small,large

      # Only included if DEBUG=1 is set
      - if: ${env:DEBUG} == 1
        all: debug=true verbose=true
```

The condition is evaluated when the job is executed.

## Including External Configurations

You can include external configuration files:

```yaml
# Main hydraflow.yaml
include:
  - path: configs/base.yaml
  - path: configs/custom.yaml

jobs:
  # Local job definitions
  custom_job:
    run: python custom.py
```

The included files should have the same structure as the main file.

## Reusing Sets

You can define reusable parameter sets and reference them:

```yaml
param_sets:
  common:
    all: seed=42 batch_size=32

  models:
    each: model=small,large

jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - use: common
      - use: models
```

This allows you to define parameter sets once and reuse them across
multiple jobs.

## Complete Example

Here's a complete example that demonstrates many of the features:

```yaml
variables:
  base_lr: 0.001
  models: small,large,xlarge

param_sets:
  common:
    all: seed=42 batch_size=32 epochs=100

  optimization:
    each: >-
      optimizer=adam,sgd
      learning_rate=${base_lr},${base_lr}*0.1

jobs:
  # Base job definition
  base_train:
    run: python train.py
    add: hydra/launcher=joblib hydra.launcher.n_jobs=2
    sets:
      - use: common

  # Training job
  train:
    inherit: base_train
    sets:
      - each: model=${models}
      - use: optimization

  # Evaluation job
  evaluate:
    run: python evaluate.py
    sets:
      - use: common
      - each: model=${models}
      - all: eval_split=test

  # Fine-tuning job with higher parallelism
  finetune:
    inherit: train
    run: python finetune.py
    sets:
      # This set completely overrides the job-level add from base_train
      - each: model=large,xlarge
        add: hydra/launcher=submitit hydra.launcher.submitit.cpus_per_task=8
      - all: pretrained=true learning_rate=${base_lr}*0.01
```

## Best Practices

### Organize Related Parameters

Group related parameters together in the same set:

```yaml
sets:
  # Model architecture parameters
  - each: >-
      model=small,large
      num_layers=2,4,6

  # Optimization parameters
  - each: >-
      optimizer=adam,sgd
      learning_rate=0.1,0.01
```

### Use Descriptive Job Names

Choose descriptive names for your jobs:

```yaml
jobs:
  pretrain_transformer:
    # ...

  finetune_classification:
    # ...

  evaluate_test_set:
    # ...
```

### Validate with Dry Run

Always validate your job configuration with a dry run before executing:

```bash
$ hydraflow run train --dry-run
```

### Use Variables for Shared Values

Define variables for values used across multiple jobs:

```yaml
variables:
  base_epochs: 100
  base_batch_size: 32

jobs:
  train:
    # ...
    sets:
      - all: epochs=${base_epochs} batch_size=${base_batch_size}
```

### Document Your Configurations

Add comments to explain complex configurations:

```yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    # Use parallel execution for faster processing
    add: hydra/launcher=joblib hydra.launcher.n_jobs=4
    sets:
      # These parameters control the model architecture
      - each: >-
          model=small,large  # Model size
          num_layers=2,4     # Number of transformer layers

      # These control the optimization process
      - each: >-
          optimizer=adam,sgd  # Optimization algorithm
```

### Version Control Your Job Configurations

Keep your `hydraflow.yaml` files in version control to ensure
reproducibility of your experiments.
