docs/part2-analysis/index.md, before:

# Analyzing Results with HydraFlow

After running experiments, the next critical step is analyzing and
comparing results to derive insights. This section covers HydraFlow's
powerful tools for accessing, analyzing, and visualizing experiment data.

## Overview

HydraFlow provides a comprehensive API for working with experiment results,
enabling you to:

- Load and access experiment data from MLflow runs
- Filter and group experiments based on configuration parameters
- Transform experiment data into structured formats for analysis

## Key Components

The main components of HydraFlow's analysis tools are:

1. **[`Run`][hydraflow.core.run.Run] Class**: Represents a single experiment
   run, providing access to configuration and artifacts.

2. **[`RunCollection`][hydraflow.core.run_collection.RunCollection] Class**:
   A collection of `Run` instances with tools for filtering, grouping, and
   aggregating results.

3. **Data Analysis Integration**: Tools to convert experiment data into
   Polars DataFrames for advanced analysis.

## Basic Analysis Workflow

```python
from hydraflow import Run

# Load experiment runs
runs = Run.load(["path/to/run1", "path/to/run2", "path/to/run3"])

# Filter runs based on configuration
filtered_runs = runs.filter(learning_rate=0.01, model_type="transformer")

# Group runs by a parameter
grouped_runs = runs.group_by("batch_size")

# Convert to DataFrame for analysis
df = runs.to_frame("learning_rate", "batch_size", accuracy=lambda run: run.get("accuracy"))

# Perform analysis on the DataFrame
best_run = df.sort("accuracy", descending=True).first()
```

## Finding and Loading Runs

HydraFlow provides utilities to easily find and load runs from your MLflow tracking directory:

```python
from hydraflow import Run
from hydraflow.core.io import iter_run_dirs

# Find all runs in the tracking directory
tracking_dir = "mlruns"
runs = Run.load(iter_run_dirs(tracking_dir))

# Load runs from specific experiments
runs = Run.load(iter_run_dirs(tracking_dir, "my_experiment"))

# Load runs from multiple experiments using patterns
runs = Run.load(iter_run_dirs(tracking_dir, ["training_*", "finetuning_*"]))
```

This approach makes it easy to gather all relevant runs for analysis without having to manually specify each run directory.

## Type-Safe Analysis

HydraFlow supports type-safe analysis through type parameters:

```python
from dataclasses import dataclass
from hydraflow import Run

@dataclass
class MyConfig:
    learning_rate: float
    batch_size: int
    model_type: str

# Load runs with type information
runs = Run[MyConfig].load(["path/to/run1", "path/to/run2"])

# Type-checked access to configuration
for run in runs:
    # IDE will provide auto-completion for cfg properties
    print(f"LR: {run.cfg.learning_rate}, Model: {run.cfg.model_type}")
```

## Implementation Support

HydraFlow can integrate with custom implementation classes to provide domain-specific
functionality:

```python
from hydraflow import Run
from pathlib import Path

class ModelAnalyzer:
    def __init__(self, artifacts_dir: Path, cfg: MyConfig | None = None):
        self.artifacts_dir = artifacts_dir
        self.cfg = cfg

    def load_model(self):
        return torch.load(self.artifacts_dir / "model.pt")

    def analyze_performance(self):
        # Custom analysis logic
        pass

# Load a run with implementation
run = Run[MyConfig, ModelAnalyzer].load("path/to/run", ModelAnalyzer)

# Access implementation methods
model = run.impl.load_model()
results = run.impl.analyze_performance()
```

## What's Next

In the following pages, we'll explore HydraFlow's analysis tools in detail:

- [Run Class](run-class.md): Learn how to use the [`Run`][hydraflow.core.run.Run]
  class to access and analyze individual experiment runs.

- [Run Collection](run-collection.md): Discover the powerful features of the
  [`RunCollection`][hydraflow.core.run_collection.RunCollection] class for
  working with multiple runs.

Commit message:

Refactor documentation structure and update navigation links
Reorganize the documentation by renaming and restructuring parts for clarity. Update mkdocs.yaml and index.md to reflect the new order of sections: "Part 1: Running Applications," "Part 2: Automating Workflows," and "Part 3: Analyzing Results." Ensure that references to job configuration and analysis capabilities are correctly aligned with their respective parts.

docs/part2-analysis/index.md, after:

# Analyzing Results with HydraFlow

After running experiments, the next critical step is analyzing and
comparing results to derive insights. This section covers HydraFlow's
powerful tools for accessing, analyzing, and visualizing experiment data.

## Overview

Part 3 provides a comprehensive API for working with experiment results,
enabling you to:

- Load and access experiment data from MLflow runs
- Filter and group experiments based on configuration parameters
- Transform experiment data into structured formats for analysis

## Key Components

The main components of HydraFlow's analysis tools are:

1. **[`Run`][hydraflow.core.run.Run] Class**: Represents a single experiment
   run, providing access to configuration and artifacts.

2. **[`RunCollection`][hydraflow.core.run_collection.RunCollection] Class**:
   A collection of `Run` instances with tools for filtering, grouping, and
   aggregating results.

3. **Data Analysis Integration**: Tools to convert experiment data into
   Polars DataFrames for advanced analysis.

## Basic Analysis Workflow

```python
from hydraflow import Run

# Load experiment runs
runs = Run.load(["path/to/run1", "path/to/run2", "path/to/run3"])

# Filter runs based on configuration
filtered_runs = runs.filter(learning_rate=0.01, model_type="transformer")

# Group runs by a parameter
grouped_runs = runs.group_by("batch_size")

# Convert to DataFrame for analysis
df = runs.to_frame("learning_rate", "batch_size", accuracy=lambda run: run.get("accuracy"))

# Perform analysis on the DataFrame
best_run = df.sort("accuracy", descending=True).first()
```

## Finding and Loading Runs

HydraFlow provides utilities to easily find and load runs from your MLflow tracking directory:

```python
from hydraflow import Run
from hydraflow.core.io import iter_run_dirs

# Find all runs in the tracking directory
tracking_dir = "mlruns"
runs = Run.load(iter_run_dirs(tracking_dir))

# Load runs from specific experiments
runs = Run.load(iter_run_dirs(tracking_dir, "my_experiment"))

# Load runs from multiple experiments using patterns
runs = Run.load(iter_run_dirs(tracking_dir, ["training_*", "finetuning_*"]))
```

This approach makes it easy to gather all relevant runs for analysis without having to manually specify each run directory.

## Type-Safe Analysis

HydraFlow supports type-safe analysis through type parameters:

```python
from dataclasses import dataclass
from hydraflow import Run

@dataclass
class MyConfig:
    learning_rate: float
    batch_size: int
    model_type: str

# Load runs with type information
runs = Run[MyConfig].load(["path/to/run1", "path/to/run2"])

# Type-checked access to configuration
for run in runs:
    # IDE will provide auto-completion for cfg properties
    print(f"LR: {run.cfg.learning_rate}, Model: {run.cfg.model_type}")
```

## Implementation Support

HydraFlow can integrate with custom implementation classes to provide domain-specific
functionality:

```python
from hydraflow import Run
from pathlib import Path

class ModelAnalyzer:
    def __init__(self, artifacts_dir: Path, cfg: MyConfig | None = None):
        self.artifacts_dir = artifacts_dir
        self.cfg = cfg

    def load_model(self):
        return torch.load(self.artifacts_dir / "model.pt")

    def analyze_performance(self):
        # Custom analysis logic
        pass

# Load a run with implementation
run = Run[MyConfig, ModelAnalyzer].load("path/to/run", ModelAnalyzer)

# Access implementation methods
model = run.impl.load_model()
results = run.impl.analyze_performance()
```

The analysis capabilities covered in Part 3 are designed to work seamlessly with the experiment definitions from [Part 1](../part1-applications/index.md) and the advanced workflow automation from [Part 2](../part3-advanced/index.md).

## What's Next

In the following pages, we'll explore HydraFlow's analysis tools in detail:

- [Run Class](run-class.md): Learn how to use the [`Run`][hydraflow.core.run.Run]
  class to access and analyze individual experiment runs.

- [Run Collection](run-collection.md): Discover the powerful features of the
  [`RunCollection`][hydraflow.core.run_collection.RunCollection] class for
  working with multiple runs.
