docs/getting-started/concepts.md, before:

# Core Concepts

This page introduces the fundamental concepts of HydraFlow that form the foundation of the framework.

## Design Principles

HydraFlow is built on the following design principles:

1. **Type Safety** - Utilizing Python dataclasses for configuration type checking and IDE support
2. **Reproducibility** - Automatically tracking all experiment configurations for fully reproducible experiments
3. **Analysis Capabilities** - Providing powerful APIs for easily analyzing experiment results
4. **Workflow Integration** - Creating a cohesive workflow by integrating Hydra's configuration management with MLflow's experiment tracking

## Key Components

HydraFlow consists of the following key components:

### Configuration Management

HydraFlow uses a hierarchical configuration system based on OmegaConf and Hydra. This provides:

- Type-safe configuration using Python dataclasses
- Schema validation to ensure configuration correctness
- Configuration composition from multiple sources
- Command-line overrides

Example configuration:

```python
from dataclasses import dataclass

@dataclass
class Config:
    learning_rate: float = 0.001
    batch_size: int = 32
    epochs: int = 10
```

This configuration class defines the structure and default values for your experiment, enabling type checking and auto-completion.

### Main Decorator

The [`@hydraflow.main`][hydraflow.main] decorator defines the entry point for a HydraFlow application:

```python
import hydraflow
from mlflow.entities import Run

@hydraflow.main(Config)
def train(run: Run, cfg: Config) -> None:
    # Your experiment code
    print(f"Training with lr={cfg.learning_rate}, batch_size={cfg.batch_size}")

    # Log metrics
    hydraflow.log_metric("accuracy", 0.95)
```

This decorator provides:

- Automatic registration of your config class with Hydra's `ConfigStore`
- Automatic setup of an MLflow experiment
- Storage of Hydra configurations and logs as MLflow artifacts
- Support for type-safe APIs and IDE integration

## Workflow Automation

HydraFlow allows you to automate experiment workflows using a YAML-based job definition system:

```yaml
jobs:
  train_models:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - each: model=small,medium,large
        all: learning_rate=0.001,0.01,0.1
```

This enables:

- Defining reusable experiment workflows
- Efficient configuration of parameter sweeps
- Organization of complex experiment campaigns

You can also define more complex parameter spaces using extended sweep syntax:

```bash
# Ranges (start:end:step)
python train.py -m "learning_rate=0.01:0.03:0.01"

# SI prefixes
python train.py -m "batch_size=1k,2k,4k"
# 1000, 2000, 4000

# Grid within a single parameter
python train.py -m "model=(small,large)_(v1,v2)"
# small_v1, small_v2, large_v1, large_v2
```

### Run

The `Run` class represents a single experiment run in HydraFlow. It is distinct from MLflow's `Run` class (`mlflow.entities.Run`), focusing on Hydra integration and configuration management.

```python
from hydraflow import Run

# Load an existing run
run = Run.load("path/to/run")

# Access configuration values
learning_rate = run.get("learning_rate")
```

The `Run` class provides:

- Access to experiment configurations used during the run
- Methods for loading and analyzing experiment results
- Support for custom implementations through the factory pattern
- Type-safe access to configuration values

You can use type parameters for more powerful IDE support:

```python
from dataclasses import dataclass
from hydraflow import Run

@dataclass
class MyConfig:
    learning_rate: float
    batch_size: int

# Load a Run with type information
run = Run[MyConfig].load("path/to/run")
print(run.cfg.learning_rate)  # IDE auto-completion works
```

### RunCollection

A `RunCollection` is a collection of `Run` instances that provides tools for analyzing and comparing multiple experiments:

```python
# Load multiple runs
runs = Run.load(["path/to/run1", "path/to/run2", "path/to/run3"])

# Filter runs by parameter value
filtered_runs = runs.filter(model_type="lstm")

# Group runs by a parameter
grouped_runs = runs.group_by("dataset_name")

# Convert to DataFrame for analysis
df = runs.to_frame("learning_rate", "batch_size", "accuracy")
```

Key features of `RunCollection`:

- Filtering runs based on configuration parameters
- Grouping runs by common attributes
- Aggregating data across runs
- Converting to Polars DataFrames for advanced analysis

## Summary

These core concepts work together to provide a comprehensive framework for managing machine learning experiments:

1. **Configuration Management** - Type-safe configuration with Python dataclasses
2. **Main Decorator** - The entry point that integrates Hydra and MLflow
3. **Run** - Access and analysis of individual experiment results
4. **RunCollection** - Comparison and analysis of multiple experiments
5. **Workflow Automation** - Reusable experiment definitions and advanced parameter sweeps

Understanding these fundamental concepts will help you leverage the full power of HydraFlow for your machine learning projects.

Commit message:

Revise concepts documentation to improve structure and clarity
Update the `concepts.md` file to reorder sections on workflow integration and analysis capabilities, enhancing the overall flow of information. Introduce new subsections for analysis tools and comparing multiple runs, providing clearer guidance on accessing and analyzing experiment results. This change aims to improve user understanding of HydraFlow's capabilities in managing and analyzing machine learning experiments.

docs/getting-started/concepts.md, after:

# Core Concepts

This page introduces the fundamental concepts of HydraFlow that form the foundation of the framework.

## Design Principles

HydraFlow is built on the following design principles:

1. **Type Safety** - Utilizing Python dataclasses for configuration type checking and IDE support
2. **Reproducibility** - Automatically tracking all experiment configurations for fully reproducible experiments
3. **Workflow Integration** - Creating a cohesive workflow by integrating Hydra's configuration management with MLflow's experiment tracking
4. **Analysis Capabilities** - Providing powerful APIs for easily analyzing experiment results

## Key Components

HydraFlow consists of the following key components:

### Configuration Management

HydraFlow uses a hierarchical configuration system based on OmegaConf and Hydra. This provides:

- Type-safe configuration using Python dataclasses
- Schema validation to ensure configuration correctness
- Configuration composition from multiple sources
- Command-line overrides

Example configuration:

```python
from dataclasses import dataclass

@dataclass
class Config:
    learning_rate: float = 0.001
    batch_size: int = 32
    epochs: int = 10
```

This configuration class defines the structure and default values for your experiment, enabling type checking and auto-completion.

### Main Decorator

The [`@hydraflow.main`][hydraflow.main] decorator defines the entry point for a HydraFlow application:

```python
import hydraflow
from mlflow.entities import Run

@hydraflow.main(Config)
def train(run: Run, cfg: Config) -> None:
    # Your experiment code
    print(f"Training with lr={cfg.learning_rate}, batch_size={cfg.batch_size}")

    # Log metrics
    hydraflow.log_metric("accuracy", 0.95)
```

This decorator provides:

- Automatic registration of your config class with Hydra's `ConfigStore`
- Automatic setup of an MLflow experiment
- Storage of Hydra configurations and logs as MLflow artifacts
- Support for type-safe APIs and IDE integration

### Workflow Automation

HydraFlow allows you to automate experiment workflows using a YAML-based job definition system:

```yaml
jobs:
  train_models:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - each: model=small,medium,large
        all: learning_rate=0.001,0.01,0.1
```

This enables:

- Defining reusable experiment workflows
- Efficient configuration of parameter sweeps
- Organization of complex experiment campaigns

You can also define more complex parameter spaces using extended sweep syntax:

```bash
# Ranges (start:end:step)
python train.py -m "learning_rate=0.01:0.03:0.01"

# SI prefixes
python train.py -m "batch_size=1k,2k,4k"
# 1000, 2000, 4000

# Grid within a single parameter
python train.py -m "model=(small,large)_(v1,v2)"
# small_v1, small_v2, large_v1, large_v2
```

### Analysis Tools

After running experiments, HydraFlow provides powerful tools for accessing and analyzing results. These tools help you track, compare, and derive insights from your experiments.

#### Working with Individual Runs

For individual experiment analysis, HydraFlow provides the `Run` class, which represents a single experiment run:

```python
from hydraflow import Run

# Load an existing run
run = Run.load("path/to/run")

# Access configuration values
learning_rate = run.get("learning_rate")
```

The `Run` class provides:

- Access to experiment configurations used during the run
- Methods for loading and analyzing experiment results
- Support for custom implementations through the factory pattern
- Type-safe access to configuration values

You can use type parameters for more powerful IDE support:

```python
from dataclasses import dataclass
from hydraflow import Run

@dataclass
class MyConfig:
    learning_rate: float
    batch_size: int

# Load a Run with type information
run = Run[MyConfig].load("path/to/run")
print(run.cfg.learning_rate)  # IDE auto-completion works
```

#### Comparing Multiple Runs

For comparing multiple runs, HydraFlow offers the `RunCollection` class, which enables efficient analysis across runs:

```python
# Load multiple runs
runs = Run.load(["path/to/run1", "path/to/run2", "path/to/run3"])

# Filter runs by parameter value
filtered_runs = runs.filter(model_type="lstm")

# Group runs by a parameter
grouped_runs = runs.group_by("dataset_name")

# Convert to DataFrame for analysis
df = runs.to_frame("learning_rate", "batch_size", "accuracy")
```

Key features of experiment comparison:

- Filtering runs based on configuration parameters
- Grouping runs by common attributes
- Aggregating data across runs
- Converting to Polars DataFrames for advanced analysis

## Summary

These core concepts work together to provide a comprehensive framework for managing machine learning experiments:

1. **Configuration Management** - Type-safe configuration with Python dataclasses
2. **Main Decorator** - The entry point that integrates Hydra and MLflow
3. **Workflow Automation** - Reusable experiment definitions and advanced parameter sweeps
4. **Analysis Tools** - Access, filter, and analyze experiment results

Understanding these fundamental concepts will help you leverage the full power of HydraFlow for your machine learning projects.
