docs/part1-applications/execution.md, before:

# Executing Applications

Once you've defined your HydraFlow application, you need to execute it to
run experiments. This page covers how to run applications, configure them
via command-line arguments, and perform parameter sweeps.

## Basic Execution

To run a HydraFlow application, simply execute the Python script:

```bash
python train.py
```

This will:

1. Set up an MLflow experiment with the same name as the Hydra job name
    (using `mlflow.set_experiment`). If the experiment doesn't exist,
    it will be created automatically
2. Create a new MLflow run or reuse an existing one based on the configuration
3. Save the Hydra configuration as an MLflow artifact
4. Execute your function decorated with `@hydraflow.main`
5. Save only `*.log` files from Hydra's output directory as MLflow artifacts

Note that any other artifacts (models, data files, etc.) must be explicitly
saved by your code using MLflow's logging functions. The `chdir` option in
the `@hydraflow.main` decorator can help with this by changing the working
directory to the run's artifact directory, making file operations more convenient.

## Command-line Override Syntax

Hydra provides a powerful syntax for overriding configuration
values:

```bash
# Override simple parameters
python train.py learning_rate=0.001 batch_size=64

# Override nested parameters
python train.py model.hidden_size=1024 optimizer.learning_rate=0.0001

# Override using configuration groups
python train.py model=cnn optimizer=sgd

# Load specific configurations
python train.py --config-name=my_experiment
```

## Working with Multirun Mode

Hydra's multirun mode allows you to execute your application with multiple
configurations in a single command:

```bash
# Run with different learning rates
python train.py -m optimizer.learning_rate=0.1,0.01,0.001

# Run with different model configurations
python train.py -m model=transformer,cnn,lstm

# Sweep over combinations of parameters
python train.py -m optimizer.learning_rate=0.1,0.01 model=transformer,cnn
```

The above command will run your application 6 times with all combinations
of the specified parameters (2 learning rates × 3 model types).

### Advanced Parameter Sweeps

For more complex parameter spaces, HydraFlow provides an extended
sweep syntax that goes beyond Hydra's basic capabilities:

```bash
# Define numerical ranges with start:stop:step
python train.py -m batch_size=16:128:16

# Use SI prefixes for scientific notation
python train.py -m learning_rate=1:5:m  # 0.001 to 0.005

# Create parameter combinations
python train.py -m model=(cnn,transformer)_(small,large)
```

See [Extended Sweep Syntax](../part2-advanced/sweep-syntax.md) for a
complete reference on these powerful features.

### Managing Complex Experiment Workflows

HydraFlow provides CLI tools to work with multirun mode more efficiently
than using long command lines:

```bash
# Define jobs in hydraflow.yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - each: model=small,large
      - all: seed=42,43

# Run the defined job
hydraflow run train
```

This approach helps you organize complex experiments, track execution history,
and make experiments more reproducible. For details on these advanced capabilities,
see [Job Configuration](../part2-advanced/job-configuration.md) in Part 2.

## Output Organization

By default, Hydra organizes outputs in the following directory structure
for HydraFlow applications:

```
ROOT_DIR/
├── outputs/                 # Created in single run mode
│   └── YYYY-MM-DD/          # Date
│       └── HH-MM-SS/        # Time
│           └── .hydra/      # Hydra configuration
└── multirun/                # Created in multirun mode
    └── YYYY-MM-DD/          # Date
        └── HH-MM-SS/        # Time
            ├── 0/           # Sweep run 0
            │   └── .hydra/
            ├── 1/           # Sweep run 1
            │   └── .hydra/
            └── ...
```

Each run also creates an entry in the MLflow tracking directory:

```
mlruns/
├── experiment_id_1/         # Experiment ID
│   ├── run_id_1/            # Run ID
│   │   ├── artifacts/
│   │   │   └── .hydra/      # Hydra config copied here
│   │   │       ├── config.yaml
│   │   │       ├── hydra.yaml
│   │   │       └── overrides.yaml
│   │   ├── metrics/
│   │   ├── params/
│   │   └── tags/
│   ├── run_id_2/
│   │   └── artifacts/
│   │       └── .hydra/
:   └── meta.yaml            # Contains Hydra job name
```

**Important**: In HydraFlow, the MLflow run's `artifacts` directory serves
as the single source of truth for your experiment data. The Hydra-generated
output directories are only used as temporary locations to store
configuration files and logs, which are then copied to the MLflow artifacts.
After your application completes, you can safely delete the Hydra output
directories without losing any essential information, as everything important
is preserved in the MLflow run.

Users can always access Hydra-generated configuration files and logs by
navigating to the `run_dir/artifacts/.hydra/` directory within the MLflow
run. This directory contains all the configuration files, overrides, and
other Hydra-related files that were used for that specific run, making it
easy to review and reproduce the experiment settings even after the original
Hydra output directories have been deleted.

## Best Practices

1. **Use Sensible Defaults**: Design your configuration to have sensible defaults
   so that running without arguments produces meaningful results.

2. **Document Command-line Options**: Include a README or help text that
   describes the available command-line options for your application.

3. **Version Control Configurations**: Store configuration files in version
   control to ensure reproducibility.

4. **Organize Complex Sweeps**: For complex parameter sweeps, use HydraFlow's
   extended sweep syntax and job configurations rather than long command lines.

5. **Monitor Resource Usage**: Be mindful of resource usage when running large
   parameter sweeps, especially with parallel execution.

## Summary

HydraFlow provides a streamlined way to leverage both Hydra's
configuration management and MLflow's experiment tracking.
The execution system is built on standard Hydra functionality,
while experiment tracking utilizes MLflow's capabilities.
By combining these tools, HydraFlow enables reproducible and
efficient machine learning workflows while maintaining
compatibility with the underlying libraries' documentation and ecosystem.

For more advanced execution capabilities, see:
- [Extended Sweep Syntax](../part2-advanced/sweep-syntax.md)
- [Job Configuration](../part2-advanced/job-configuration.md) in Part 2

Commit message:

refactor: Decouple MLflow tracking URI from application logic (#248)
* refactor: Decouple MLflow tracking URI from application logic

* fix: Correct logger variable name in app.py

* refactor: Enhance MLflow integration by decoupling tracking URI setup and adding global lock management

* fix: Update global lock management in set_experiment to use a consistent lock file path

* Update docs

docs/part1-applications/execution.md, after:

# Executing Applications

Once you've defined your HydraFlow application, you need to execute it to
run experiments. This page covers how to run applications, configure them
via command-line arguments, and perform parameter sweeps.

## Basic Execution

To run a HydraFlow application, simply execute the Python script:

```bash
python train.py
```

This will:

1. Set up the MLflow tracking URI (if provided in the decorator) and an
    MLflow experiment with the same name as the Hydra job name. If the
    experiment doesn't exist, it will be created automatically
2. Create a new MLflow run or reuse an existing one based on the configuration
3. Save the Hydra configuration as an MLflow artifact
4. Execute your function decorated with `@hydraflow.main`
5. Save only `*.log` files from Hydra's output directory as MLflow artifacts

Note that any other artifacts (models, data files, etc.) must be explicitly
saved by your code using MLflow's logging functions. The `chdir` option in
the `@hydraflow.main` decorator can help with this by changing the working
directory to the run's artifact directory, making file operations more convenient.

## Command-line Override Syntax

Hydra provides a powerful syntax for overriding configuration
values:

```bash
# Override simple parameters
python train.py learning_rate=0.001 batch_size=64

# Override nested parameters
python train.py model.hidden_size=1024 optimizer.learning_rate=0.0001

# Override using configuration groups
python train.py model=cnn optimizer=sgd

# Load specific configurations
python train.py --config-name=my_experiment
```

## Working with Multirun Mode

Hydra's multirun mode allows you to execute your application with multiple
configurations in a single command:

```bash
# Run with different learning rates
python train.py -m optimizer.learning_rate=0.1,0.01,0.001

# Run with different model configurations
python train.py -m model=transformer,cnn,lstm

# Sweep over combinations of parameters
python train.py -m optimizer.learning_rate=0.1,0.01 model=transformer,cnn
```

The above command will run your application 6 times with all combinations
of the specified parameters (2 learning rates × 3 model types).

### Advanced Parameter Sweeps

For more complex parameter spaces, HydraFlow provides an extended
sweep syntax that goes beyond Hydra's basic capabilities:

```bash
# Define numerical ranges with start:stop:step
python train.py -m batch_size=16:128:16

# Use SI prefixes for scientific notation
python train.py -m learning_rate=1:5:m  # 0.001 to 0.005

# Create parameter combinations
python train.py -m model=(cnn,transformer)_(small,large)
```

See [Extended Sweep Syntax](../part2-advanced/sweep-syntax.md) for a
complete reference on these powerful features.

### Managing Complex Experiment Workflows

HydraFlow provides CLI tools to work with multirun mode more efficiently
than using long command lines:

```bash
# Define jobs in hydraflow.yaml
jobs:
  train:
    run: python train.py
    sets:
      - each: model=small,large
      - all: seed=42,43

# Run the defined job
hydraflow run train
```

This approach helps you organize complex experiments, track execution history,
and make experiments more reproducible. For details on these advanced capabilities,
see [Job Configuration](../part2-advanced/job-configuration.md) in Part 2.

## Output Organization

By default, Hydra organizes outputs in the following directory structure
for HydraFlow applications:

```
ROOT_DIR/
├── outputs/                 # Created in single run mode
│   └── YYYY-MM-DD/          # Date
│       └── HH-MM-SS/        # Time
│           └── .hydra/      # Hydra configuration
└── multirun/                # Created in multirun mode
    └── YYYY-MM-DD/          # Date
        └── HH-MM-SS/        # Time
            ├── 0/           # Sweep run 0
            │   └── .hydra/
            ├── 1/           # Sweep run 1
            │   └── .hydra/
            └── ...
```

Each run also creates an entry in the MLflow tracking directory:

```
mlruns/
├── experiment_id_1/         # Experiment ID
│   ├── run_id_1/            # Run ID
│   │   ├── artifacts/
│   │   │   └── .hydra/      # Hydra config copied here
│   │   │       ├── config.yaml
│   │   │       ├── hydra.yaml
│   │   │       └── overrides.yaml
│   │   ├── metrics/
│   │   ├── params/
│   │   └── tags/
│   ├── run_id_2/
│   │   └── artifacts/
│   │       └── .hydra/
:   └── meta.yaml            # Contains Hydra job name
```

**Important**: In HydraFlow, the MLflow run's `artifacts` directory serves
as the single source of truth for your experiment data. The Hydra-generated
output directories are only used as temporary locations to store
configuration files and logs, which are then copied to the MLflow artifacts.
After your application completes, you can safely delete the Hydra output
directories without losing any essential information, as everything important
is preserved in the MLflow run.

Users can always access Hydra-generated configuration files and logs by
navigating to the `run_dir/artifacts/.hydra/` directory within the MLflow
run. This directory contains all the configuration files, overrides, and
other Hydra-related files that were used for that specific run, making it
easy to review and reproduce the experiment settings even after the original
Hydra output directories have been deleted.

## Best Practices

1. **Use Sensible Defaults**: Design your configuration to have sensible defaults
   so that running without arguments produces meaningful results.

2. **Document Command-line Options**: Include a README or help text that
   describes the available command-line options for your application.

3. **Version Control Configurations**: Store configuration files in version
   control to ensure reproducibility.

4. **Organize Complex Sweeps**: For complex parameter sweeps, use HydraFlow's
   extended sweep syntax and job configurations rather than long command lines.

5. **Monitor Resource Usage**: Be mindful of resource usage when running large
   parameter sweeps, especially with parallel execution.

## Summary

HydraFlow provides a streamlined way to leverage both Hydra's
configuration management and MLflow's experiment tracking.
The execution system is built on standard Hydra functionality,
while experiment tracking utilizes MLflow's capabilities.
By combining these tools, HydraFlow enables reproducible and
efficient machine learning workflows while maintaining
compatibility with the underlying libraries' documentation and ecosystem.

For more advanced execution capabilities, see:
- [Extended Sweep Syntax](../part2-advanced/sweep-syntax.md)
- [Job Configuration](../part2-advanced/job-configuration.md) in Part 2
