docs/index.md, before:

# HydraFlow: Streamline ML Experiment Workflows

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- 🚀 **Define and Run Experiments**
  Combine Hydra's configuration management with MLflow's experiment
  tracking for streamlined experiment workflows
- 📊 **Collect and Analyze Results**
  Gather, filter, and analyze experiment results with type-safe APIs
  for comprehensive insights
- 🔄 **Automate Workflows**
  Manage and organize large-scale machine learning experiments
  efficiently

</div>

## What is HydraFlow?

HydraFlow seamlessly integrates [Hydra](https://hydra.cc/) and
[MLflow](https://mlflow.org/) to create a comprehensive machine learning
experiment management framework. It provides a complete workflow from defining
experiments to execution and analysis, streamlining machine learning projects
from research to production.

### Key Integration Features

- **Automatic Configuration Tracking**: Hydra configurations are automatically
  saved as MLflow artifacts, ensuring complete reproducibility of experiments
- **Type-safe Configuration**: Leverage Python dataclasses for type-safe
  experiment configuration with full IDE support
- **Unified Workflow**: Connect configuration management and experiment tracking
  in a single, coherent workflow
- **Powerful Analysis Tools**: Analyze and compare experiments using
  configuration parameters captured from Hydra

### Hydra + MLflow = More Than the Sum of Parts

HydraFlow goes beyond simply using Hydra and MLflow side by side:

- **Parameter Sweep Integration**: Run Hydra multi-run sweeps with automatic
  MLflow experiment organization
- **Configuration-Aware Analysis**: Filter and group experiment results using
  Hydra configuration parameters
- **Reproducible Experiments**: Ensure experiments can be reliably reproduced
  with configuration-based definitions
- **Implementation Support**: Extend experiment analysis with custom
  domain-specific implementations

## Quick Installation

```bash
pip install hydraflow
```

**Requirements:** Python 3.13+

## Documentation Structure

The HydraFlow documentation is organized as follows:

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :material-book-open-variant: [**Getting Started**](getting-started/index.md)
  Install HydraFlow and learn core concepts
- :material-school: [**Practical Tutorials**](practical-tutorials/index.md)
  Learn through hands-on examples and real use cases
- :material-rocket-launch: [**Part 1: Running Applications**](part1-applications/index.md)
  Define and execute HydraFlow applications
- :material-cogs: [**Part 2: Automating Workflows**](part2-advanced/index.md)
  Build advanced experiment workflows
- :material-magnify: [**Part 3: Analyzing Results**](part3-analysis/index.md)
  Collect and analyze experiment results
- :material-code-tags: [**API Reference**](api/hydraflow/README.md)
  Detailed documentation of classes and methods

</div>

## Getting Started

Begin your journey with HydraFlow through our introductory guides:

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :material-book-open-variant: [**Installation Guide**](getting-started/installation.md)
  Install and set up HydraFlow
- :material-school: [**Core Concepts**](getting-started/concepts.md)
  Learn the key concepts and design principles of HydraFlow
- :material-file-code: [**Practical Tutorials**](practical-tutorials/index.md)
  Hands-on examples to understand HydraFlow in practice

</div>

Commit message:

Update index.md to enhance workflow automation section
Revise the description of workflow automation to define reusable experiment workflows using YAML configuration and introduce extended sweep syntax for parameter exploration. This change aims to improve clarity and provide users with better guidance on managing large-scale machine learning experiments.

docs/index.md, after:

# HydraFlow: Streamline ML Experiment Workflows

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- 🚀 **Define and Run Experiments**
  Combine Hydra's configuration management with MLflow's experiment
  tracking for streamlined experiment workflows
- 📊 **Collect and Analyze Results**
  Gather, filter, and analyze experiment results with type-safe APIs
  for comprehensive insights
- 🔄 **Automate Workflows**
  Define reusable experiment workflows with YAML configuration and
  leverage extended sweep syntax for parameter exploration

</div>

## What is HydraFlow?

HydraFlow seamlessly integrates [Hydra](https://hydra.cc/) and
[MLflow](https://mlflow.org/) to create a comprehensive machine learning
experiment management framework. It provides a complete workflow from defining
experiments to execution and analysis, streamlining machine learning projects
from research to production.

### Key Integration Features

- **Automatic Configuration Tracking**: Hydra configurations are automatically
  saved as MLflow artifacts, ensuring complete reproducibility of experiments
- **Type-safe Configuration**: Leverage Python dataclasses for type-safe
  experiment configuration with full IDE support
- **Unified Workflow**: Connect configuration management and experiment tracking
  in a single, coherent workflow
- **Powerful Analysis Tools**: Analyze and compare experiments using
  configuration parameters captured from Hydra

### Hydra + MLflow = More Than the Sum of Parts

HydraFlow goes beyond simply using Hydra and MLflow side by side:

- **Parameter Sweep Integration**: Run Hydra multi-run sweeps with automatic
  MLflow experiment organization
- **Configuration-Aware Analysis**: Filter and group experiment results using
  Hydra configuration parameters
- **Reproducible Experiments**: Ensure experiments can be reliably reproduced
  with configuration-based definitions
- **Implementation Support**: Extend experiment analysis with custom
  domain-specific implementations

## Quick Installation

```bash
pip install hydraflow
```

**Requirements:** Python 3.13+

## Documentation Structure

The HydraFlow documentation is organized as follows:

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :material-book-open-variant: [**Getting Started**](getting-started/index.md)
  Install HydraFlow and learn core concepts
- :material-school: [**Practical Tutorials**](practical-tutorials/index.md)
  Learn through hands-on examples and real use cases
- :material-rocket-launch: [**Part 1: Running Applications**](part1-applications/index.md)
  Define and execute HydraFlow applications
- :material-cogs: [**Part 2: Automating Workflows**](part2-advanced/index.md)
  Build advanced experiment workflows
- :material-magnify: [**Part 3: Analyzing Results**](part3-analysis/index.md)
  Collect and analyze experiment results
- :material-code-tags: [**API Reference**](api/hydraflow/README.md)
  Detailed documentation of classes and methods

</div>

## Getting Started

Begin your journey with HydraFlow through our introductory guides:

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :material-book-open-variant: [**Installation Guide**](getting-started/installation.md)
  Install and set up HydraFlow
- :material-school: [**Core Concepts**](getting-started/concepts.md)
  Learn the key concepts and design principles of HydraFlow
- :material-file-code: [**Practical Tutorials**](practical-tutorials/index.md)
  Hands-on examples to understand HydraFlow in practice

</div>
